PROPOSAL

the first document to write in the exam. Making sure that you research the problem in it entireity before you start doing anything.
Pretty much your understanding of a problem through research and general thought processes.

ORDER OF OPERATION:

1) proposal

2) design

title page

proposal for [INSERT COMPANY NAME]

with your name, learner number, "Occupational Specialism", maybe linkedin NETWORK BITCH


CONTENT PAGE

this has to be an autogenerated contents page (like in a book)
make sure all titles and subtitles in the document sre formatted as "headings"


ORGANISATION OVERVIEW

give a description of the business that the scenario is about

who are they as a business

what do they do?

what are they looking for


PROBLEM OVERVIEW

write detailed description of your understanding of a problem. the main problems with their current system

you should talk about the impact these problems are putting on the business

give a description of what the problem is with the current system

DO NOT talk about how you will solve it.


USER GROUPS

identify what you feel are the groups of users that you think will use the system

explain how you have identified them

briefly talk about how you think they will make use of your system (what things are they likely to do with the system) MIN 3 GROUPS


EMPATHY MAPS

this is a table of the problems and needs:

    shows the process of exploring what customers / users think and feel about the current solution


USER STORIES

for each of the groups of users you need to create a user story which explores the things they want to do, why they want to do it
and the "acceptance criteria" they will need.


LAW / GUIDANCE / LEGISLATION

Explore what laws and guidance that the identified business have to operate under

Look at the laws and legislation that the businesses would have to work under

Look at other laws/ legisation that will impact your system you will develop

What is the impact on your project? what will you use to adjust / migrate these impacts?

GDPR
WGC

passwords shouldn't be stored in plain text


ALTERNATIVE SYSTEMS

Look at/research other systems that are available for the same thing (sales platforms etc)

If you are struggling look at excel as an option

for each system: (3-5)
    what does the system do well (that solves their problem)
    what does the system fail to do for them
    what things will you take forward to your design and why


RISKS

Start with security risks: What risks exist? How can you defend or prevent them being an issue.
What sort of risks might also come up? This could impede you completing the project
you need to make sure you discuss how you will mitigate these risks

change of law during development


DECOMPOSITION

"break down" the problem as you see it right now, into a diagram
This will be a sort of diagram of the structure of the website you are going to build the
feature you are going to have on each page

USER ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA

list of things that the user will need to see/ experience/ feel etc to accept the system.
This could be things like:
    clear and obvious navigation bar
    fast loading times for each of the pages
    clear instructions on each page for booking

these should be grouped by each of the user groups you have identified.


FUNCTIONAL AND NON-FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS

functional requirements are things the system should do (focus on business needs):

    allow users to register
    once logged in, direct users straight to their profile page
    Allow booking of events in advance

Non-functional requirements are how the system should do things:

    store passwords using sha256
    Each page should load in 2-5 seconds


KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPI)

Things that will help to indicate the success of the project from a business perspective
should be categorised where possible

examples should include:
    "improved trust pilot reviews"
    "Visitor satisfaction rate"
    "Number of repear visitors"
    "page load time"
    "traffic by source increase in all sources"


DECRIPTION OF PROPOSED SOLUTION

give an overview of what your solution will be.

conclusion, say what you are going to build


TIPS

justify EVERYTHING, the more you tell the better, so what method

Keep a thorough and accurate list of websites you visited with TIME AND DATE

other then the first and last couple of headings the rest do not need to be in the order written.